>Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

* Making coffee;

FUNCTION makeCoffee
GET water
SET water in kettle
WHILE water is not boiling
  wait additional 1 minute
END WHILE
FOR EACH person wanting coffee
  add two teaspoons of ground coffee into press
END FOR EACH
Pour water into press
SET brewtime to 0
WHILE brewtime is < 5 minutes
  wait 1 minute
  INCREMENT brewtime by 1
END WHILE
FOR EACH person wanting coffee
  pour coffee into cup
END FOR EACH
END FUNCTION

* Washing dishes;

FUNCTION washDishes
turn on hot water
squirt soap on scrub daddy
WHILE there are dirty dishes
  grab dish
  run dish under water
  scrub dish with scrub daddy
  run dish under water
  IF dish is still dirty
    THEN scrub dish with brillo pad
    run dish under water
  END IF
  dry dish
  put away
END WHILE
END FUNCTION

* A choice of your own.

FUNCTION makePBJ
start with two slices of bread
WHILE the first slice does not have peanut butter
  spread peanut butter on one side of first slice
ENDWHILE
WHILE the second slice does not have jelly
  spread jelly on one side of second slice
ENDWHILE
place jelly side of second slice against peanut butter side of first slice
END FUNCTION


>As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

1. Many famously successful people credit their productivity to their morning routines which can be seen as algorithms.
2. Airbnb's algorithm is used to help people find the perfect vacation rentals for their needs. Must consider the guests' needs, listing details, the listers' needs, and more.
3. Amazon's algorithms tell Amazon’s website how to sort and load product lists for each customer’s experience.

>Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

An efficient algorithm will have a sequence of logical steps, and accomplish the task at hand as quickly as possible.
